# Upgrading from MSAL Angular 1.x to 2.x

MSAL Angular 2.x brings our Angular wrapper up-to-date with the latest version of MSAL common, and with out-of-the-box support for modern versions of Angular (9 - 11) and rxjs (6).

This guide will demonstrate changes needed to migrate an existing application from `@azure/msal-angular@1.x` to `@azure/msal-angular@2.0.0-alpha.0`.

## Installation

The first fundamental change to MSAL Angular 2.x is that is no longer uses the core `msal` package, but wraps the `@azure/msal-browser` package as a [peer dependency](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/npm/peer-dependencies/). 

First, uninstall any previous versions of MSAL currently being used.

To install `@azure/msal-browser` and `@azure/msal-angular`:
```
npm install @azure/msal-browser @azure/msal-angular@alpha
```

## Breaking changes in msal@2

`@azure/msal-browser@2` includes a number of breaking changes from `msal@1.x`. Many of these should be abstracted away from your application, but there are a few which will require code changes.

### MsalModule.forRoot now takes three arguments

Previously, MSAL Angular accepted two configuration objects via `MsalModule.forRoot()`, one for the core library, and one for MSAL Angular. This has been changed to take in an instance of MSAL, as well as two Angular-specific configuration objects.

1. The first argument is the MSAL instance. This can be provided as a factory which instantiates MSAL, or by passing the instance of MSAL in with configurations. 
2. The second argument is a [`MsalGuardConfiguration`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/lib/msal-angular/src/msal.guard.config.ts) object, which specifies the `interactionType` as well as an optional `authRequest` for the type of request. 
3. The third argument is a [`MsalInterceptorConfiguration`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/lib/msal-angular/src/msal.interceptor.config.ts) object, which contain the values for `interactionType`, a `protectedResourceMap`, and an optional `authRequest`. `unprotectedResourceMap` has been deprecated. 

See the [updated sample](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular10-sample-app/src/app/app.module.ts) for an example of how to pass these configuration objects.

### Protected resources

* `protectedResourceMap` has been moved to the `MsalInterceptorConfiguration` object, and can be passed as `Map<string, Array<string>>`. `MsalAngularConfiguration` has been deprecated and no longer works. See the [updated samples](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular10-sample-app/src/app/app.module.ts) for usage.
* `protectedResourceMap` supports using `*` for wildcards, instead of using minimatch as a dependency. When using wildcards, if multiple matching entries are found in the `protectedResourceMap`, the first match found will be used (based on the order of the `protectedResourceMap`). 
* Putting the root domain in the `protectedResourceMap` to protect all routes is no longer supported. Please use wildcard matching instead.
* Setting a scope value of `null` on a resource will prevent it from getting tokens. Note that the order in `protectedResourceMap` matters, so null resource should be put before any similar base urls or wildcards.
* **Note:** If there are relative resource paths in your application, you may need to provide the relative path in the `protectedResourceMap`.

### Logger

* The `logger` is now set through configurations for the MSAL instance, under `system.loggerOptions`, which include a `loggerCallback`, `piiLoggingEnabled` and `logLevel`, instead of an instance of a `logger`. The `logger` can also be set dynamically by using `MsalService.setLogger()`. See the [`logger documentation`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/lib/msal-angular/docs/v2-docs/logging.md) for more information and [sample](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular10-sample-app/src/app/app.module.ts) for usage.

### API changes

* The `acquireToken` and `login` methods now take different request objects as parameters. See the [msal.service.ts](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/lib/msal-angular/src/msal.service.ts) for details.
* Broadcast events now emit an `EventMessage` object, instead of just strings. See the [Angular sample](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular10-sample-app/src/app/app.component.ts) for an example of how to implement.
* Applications using `Redirect` methods should import the `MsalRedirectComponent` and bootstrap along with `AppComponent` in their app.component.ts, which will handle all redirects. Applications are unable to do this should implement the `handleRedirectObservable` method (and have it run on every page load), which will capture the result of redirect operations. See the [redirect documentation](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/tree/dev/lib/msal-angular/docs/v2-docs/redirects.md) for more details.

### MSAL Guard

* **Interfaces**: `MsalGuard` now implements `CanActivateChild` and `CanLoad` in addition to `CanActivate`. Example code snippets are provided in our [initialization doc](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/lib/msal-angular/docs/v2-docs/initialization.md#secure-the-routes-in-your-application) and examples of usage can be found in our sample application [here](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular11-sample-app/src/app/app-routing.module.ts).
* **Redirect on failure**: `MsalGuard` configuration now has a `loginFailedRoute` that can be configured. The Guard will redirect to this page if login is required and fails. See the Angular sample for examples of implementing it in the [configuration](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular11-sample-app/src/app/app.module.ts#L48) and [app routing module](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular11-sample-app/src/app/app-routing.module.ts#L40). Note that redirecting on failure is not available for Angular 9 applications that use the `CanLoad` interface due to base type differences.

### Accounts

* We recommend subscribing to the `inProgress$` subject before retrieving account information. This ensures that all interactions have completed before getting account information. See [our sample](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular10-sample-app/src/app/app.component.ts#L27) for an example of this use.
* When getting accounts, we recommend using `getAccountByHomeId()` and `getAccountByLocalId()`, available on the MSAL instance. `getAccount()` is now `getAccountByUsername()`, but should be a secondary choice, as it may be less reliable and is for convenience only.
* `getAllAccounts()` is also available on the MSAL instance. Please see [docs](https://azuread.github.io/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/ref/msal-browser/classes/_src_app_clientapplication_.clientapplication.html) for `@azure/msal-browser` for more details on account methods.
* Additionally, you can now get and set active acccounts using `getActiveAccount()` and `setActiveAccount()`. We recommend setting the active account after logging in with popups or calling `handleRedirectObservable()`. See [our sample](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular11-sample-app/src/app/home/home.component.ts#L23) for examples of its use.

## Angular 9+ and rxjs@6

MSAL Angular now expects that your application is built with `@angular/core@>=9`, `@angular/common@>=9`, `rxjs@6`. As with MSAL Angular 1.x, `rxjs-compat` is not required.

Steps:
1. Install newer versions of Angular and rxjs: `npm install @angular/core @angular/common rxjs`
2. Uninstall `rxjs-compat` (assuming it is not needed for other libraries): `npm uninstall rxjs-compat`

## Samples

We have put together basic sample applications for Angular 9, 10, and 11. These samples demonstrate basic configuration and usage, and will be improved and added to incrementally. We also are planning to include more samples for more scenarios and use cases.

* [Angular 9](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/tree/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular9-v2-sample-app)
* [Angular 10](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/tree/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular10-sample-app)
* [Angular 11](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/tree/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular11-sample-app)
* [Angular v11 B2C Sample](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/tree/dev/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular11-b2c-sample)
