# Upgrading from MSAL Angular 1.x to 2.x

MSAL Angular 2.x brings our Angular wrapper up-to-date with the latest version of MSAL common, and with out-of-the-box support for modern versions of Angular (9 and 10) and rxjs (6).

This guide will demonstrate changes needed to migrate an existing application from `@azure/msal-angular@1.x` to `@azure/msal-angular@2.0.0-alpha.0`.

## Installation

The first fundamental change to MSAL Angular 2.x is that is no longer uses the core `msal` package, but wraps the `@azure/msal-browser` package as a [peer dependency](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/npm/peer-dependencies/). 

First, uninstall any previous versions of MSAL currently being used.

To install `@azure/msal-browser` and `@azure/msal-angular`:
```
npm install @azure/msal-browser @azure/msal-angular@alpha
```

## Breaking changes in msal@2

`@azure/msal-browser@2` includes a number of breaking changes from `msal@1.x`. Many of these should be abstracted away from your application, but there are a few which will require code changes.

### MsalModule.forRoot now takes three arguments

Previously, MSAL Angular accepted two configuration objects via `MsalModule.forRoot()`, one for the core library, and one for MSAL Angular. This has been changed to take in an instance of MSAL, as well as two Angular-specific configuration objects.

1. The first argument is the MSAL instance. This can be provided as a factory which instantiates MSAL, or by passing the instance of MSAL in with configurations. 
2. The second argument is a [`MsalGuardConfiguration`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/msal-angular-v2/lib/msal-angular/src/msal.guard.config.ts) object, which specifies the `interactionType` as well as an optional `authRequest` for the type of request. 
3. The third argument is a [`MsalInterceptorConfiguration`](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/msal-angular-v2/lib/msal-angular/src/msal.interceptor.config.ts) object, which contain the values for `interactionType`, a `protectedResourceMap`, and an optional `authRequest`. `unprotectedResourceMap` has been deprecated. 

See the [updated sample](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/msal-angular-v2/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular10-sample-app/src/app/app.module.ts) for an example of how to pass these configuration objects.

### Other breaking changes

* `protectedResourceMap` has been moved to the `MsalInterceptorConfiguration` object, and can be passed as `Map<string, Array<string>>`. `MsalAngularConfiguration` has been deprecated and no longer works. See the [updated samples](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/msal-angular-v2/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular10-sample-app/src/app/app.module.ts) for usage.
* The `logger` is now set through configurations for the MSAL instance, under `system.loggerOptions`, which include a `loggerCallback`, `piiLoggingEnabled` and `logLevel`, instead of an instance of a `logger`. The `logger` can also be set dynamically by using `MsalService.setLogger()`. See the [updated samples](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/dev/samples/msal-angular-samples/angular6-sample-app/src/app/app.component.ts#L35) for usage.
* The `acquireToken` and `login` methods now take different request objects as parameters. See the [msal.service.ts](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/msal-angular-v2/lib/msal-angular/src/msal.service.ts) for details.
* `getAccount()` is now `getAccountByUsername()`. There is also a `getAllAccounts()` method available.
* Broadcast events now emit an `EventMessage` object, instead of just strings. See the [Angular sample](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/msal-angular-v2/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular10-sample-app/src/app/app.component.ts) for an example of how to implement.
* Applications using `Redirect` methods must implement the `handleRedirectObservable` method (and have it run on every page load), which will capture the result of redirect operations. See the [Angular sample](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/blob/msal-angular-v2/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular10-sample-app/src/app/home/home.component.ts) for an example of how to implement.

## Angular 9+ and rxjs@6

MSAL Angular now expects that your application is built with `@angular/core@>=9`, `@angular/common@>=9`, `rxjs@6`. As with MSAL Angular 1.x, `rxjs-compat` is not required.

Steps:
1. Install newer versions of Angular and rxjs: `npm install @angular/core @angular/common rxjs`
2. Uninstall `rxjs-compat` (assuming it is not needed for other libraries): `npm uninstall rxjs-compat`

## Samples

We have put together a basic sample application for Angular 10. This sample demonstrates basic configuration and usage, and will be improved and added to incrementally. We also are planning to include more samples for more scenarios and use cases.

* [Angular 10](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-js/tree/msal-angular-v2/samples/msal-angular-v2-samples/angular10-sample-app)
